# Abstract
  Sleep Apnea is a prevalent yet underdiagnosed sleep disorder with significant physiological implications, such as heightened risks for cardiovascular disease, metabolic dysregulation, and neurocognitive decline.  Detecting sleep apnea is a task that, today, requires a polysomnogram (PSG), a system which is clunky, complicated, and time consuming.  Previous research has been conducted to solve this issue, using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) models on data such as breathing rate, electroencephalograms (EEG), and electrocardiograms (ECG).  In our study, we hoped to further explore the potential of using EEG data to detect sleep apnea.  Many have also overlooked the usefulness of Conv1D on European Data Format (EDF) files, which is the preferred format for both EEGs and ECGs, so we planned to incorporate Conv1D in our study as well.  We used PSGs from St. Vincent’s University Hospital and extracted only the EEG channels.  After normalizing and splitting the EEG channels into 10 second intervals, classifying into apnea and non apnea, fine-tuning the model with a small dataset, and testing it on our whole dataset, we found our validation accuracy to be 68.46%, our validation loss to be 0.5910, and our validation recall to be 74.25%.  Our findings tell us that EEGs do have a measurable correlation to sleep apnea, but other metrics such as ECGs and breathing rate have proved to be more effective in the past.  In future research, including factors such as central vs obstructive apnea or REM vs NREM sleep might prove helpful.
